## Definition of a local variable.

Variables defined inside the **body of a function** are called local variables.
Function parameters are also generally considered to be local variables.

## Lifetime, Scope?

Lifetime is a runtime property, and scope is a compile-time property.

## Example about what is happening

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int add(int x, int y) // x and y are created and enter scope here
{
    // x and y are usable only within add()
    return x + y;
} // y and x go out of scope and are destroyed here

int main()
{
    int a{ 5 }; // a is created, initialized, and enters scope here
    int b{ 6 }; // b is created, initialized, and enters scope here

    // a and b are usable only within main()

    std::cout << add(a, b) << '\n'; // calls add(5, 6), where x=5 and y=6

    return 0;
} // b and a go out of scope and are destroyed here
```

To enhance your understanding of how all this fits together, let’s trace through this program in a little more detail. The following happens, in order:

    - Execution starts at the top of main.
    - main variable a is created and given value 5.
    - main variable b is created and given value 6.
    - Function add is called with argument values 5 and 6.
    - add parameters x and y are created and initialized with values 5 and 6 respectively.
    - The expression x + y is evaluated to produce the value 11.
    - add copies the value 11 back to caller main.
    - add parameters y and x are destroyed.
    - main prints 11 to the console.
    - main returns 0 to the operating system.
    - main variables b and a are destroyed.

And we’re done.

Note that if function add were to be called twice, parameters x and y would be created and destroyed twice -- once for each call. In a program with lots of functions and function calls, variables are created and destroyed often.

## Temproray objects:

Temporary object (also sometimes called an anonymous object) is an unnamed object that is used to hold a value that is only needed for a short period of time. Temporary objects are generated by the compiler when they are needed.
Inspect:

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int getValueFromUser()
{
 	std::cout << "Enter an integer: ";
	int input{};
	std::cin >> input;

	return input; // return the value of input back to the caller
}

int main()
{
	std::cout << getValueFromUser() << '\n'; // where does the returned value get stored?

	return 0;
}
```
where is the value that is copied back to the caller stored? We haven’t defined any variables in main(). The answer is that the return value is stored in a temporary object. This temporary object is then passed to std::cout to be printed.

